# parking-management-system

# Introduction
Seeking a vacant parking space during peak hours in areas like Hospitals, Hotels & Shopping Centers, Airports, Universities, and Exhibitions & Convention Center has always been frustrating for many drivers. Surveys says that traffic generated by cars searching for vacancies in Parking Spaces is up to 40% of the total traffic. Now that is a serious issue to look after, and Smart Parking System is one of the best available solutions to at least reduce the traffic congestion caused due to the above problem. This application gives information about the occupancy status of the spaces in the parking lot equipped with sensors that detect the presence of vehicles.Smart Parking is an Internet of Things (IoT) based application, used to detect the available parking slots. This app uses ultrasonic sensor to detect the presence of a vehicle (whether the parking slot is occupied or not). Based on the parking slot occupancy, the status (occupied/unoccupied) is displayed on the web application dashboard. In real time, the environment have sensors and devices embedded into parking spaces, transmitting data on the occupancy status; and the vehicle drivers can search for parking availability using their mobile phones or any infotainment system that is attached to the vehicle. Hence the driver would know where there is an available spot to park his vehicle in less time, reducing the energy consumption and air pollution.

# Proposed System
Proposed  system  is  an IOT  basedsystem  which  will  allow users/drivers  to  find  parking  at any given time.
•Available parking can be seen by the users•Total free parking can be see by the user.
•Parking available counter will be reduced by one as soon as car enters parking lot.
•Parking available counter will be increasedby one as soon as car leavesparking lot.
•Parking slot light will turn green if that slot is available to show that it is vacant.
•Parking slot light will turn red if that slot isnot available to show that it is not vacant.
•Entry/Exit  gates  will  be  blocked  by  barricade  which  will  open  automatically  when  a  car comes near them

# Hardware Requirement: 
--Laptop or PC: 
-1.I5Processor Based Computer or higher
2.2GB RAM
3.10GB Hard Disk
4.Esp8266
5.Ledlights.
6.Infrared sensors.
7.Ultrasonic sensors.
8.Servo Motors
